.TH RBSERVER 1 "Readerboard/Busylight Project" 29-Sep-2024
.SH NAME
rbserver \- Central service to manage readerboards and busylights
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B rbserver
.RB [ \-conf
.IR configfile ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This program opens connections to all the readerboards and busylight units described in its configuration file
and sends commands to them in order to maintain centrally-controlled messages and status indicators on them.
It opens an HTTP web service endpoint which provides a simple-to-use interface for other users on the network
to request display changes on the managed devices.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-conf " configfile
Read the server configuration from the named file. This is a required parameter.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.LP
The configuration file is a JSON object with the following fields. All fields have string values unless otherwise indicated.
.TP
.BI "GlobalAddress " (int)
Specifies the address, which must be in the range 0\-15, that may be sent to the devices to indicate a global command that
all devices should respond to. This same address
.I must
also be configured into each of the devices so they all agree with each other and the server about what the global address
should be. By default, the devices use global address 15, but this may be changed by reconfiguring the devices.
.TP
.BI "Devices " (object)
The list of all connected Readerboard and Busylight devices is provided here. The value in this case is a JSON object
(i.e., key/value map) where the keys are the device IDs and the corresponding values are JSON objects which describe
the attributes of that device. The IDs must be numeric and within the range 0\-63, and must not be the global address.
For devices not directly attached via USB (e.g., ones on RS-485 networks), the device address must also be configured to
match the ID number used by the server.
.RS
.LP
.RB ( N.B.:
in order to comply with the JSON representation standard, these keys must appear in the configuration file as quoted
strings, so the entry for device with address 42 would be introduced here with the key
.BR \[dq]42\[dq] ,
not the integer value
.BR 42 .)
.LP
The fields in the JSON object listed for each device include the following:
.TP
.B DeviceType
This indicates the hardware type for this unit. Valid values as of this writing include
.BR Busylight1 ,
.BR Busylight2 ,
.BR Readerboard3_RGB ,
and
.BR Readerboard3_Monochrome .
.TP
.B NetworkID
The name of the network or direct connection to which this device is attached. This name must be defined in the
.B Networks
field (q.v.).
.TP
.B Description
An arbitrary description of the device, its location, purpose, or whatever other information about it is useful to note.
.TP
.B Serial
The serial number of the device. The server will check this by probing the unit and comparing the serial number it reports,
to help identify mistakes in the server configuration.
.RE
.TP
.BI "Networks " (object)
All the serial ports over which the server will communicate with the various devices are enumerated here as a JSON object
whose keys are arbitrarily-named network IDs, and the corresponding values describe that connection with the following fields:
.RS
.TP
.B ConnectionType
Defines the type of connection (and thus, the protocol which must be used to communicate over it). As of this writing,
the valid values are
.BR RS-485
and
.BR USB .
.TP
.B Device
This gives the system device name (e.g., 
.RB \*(lq /dev/ttyACM0 \*(rq)
of the serial port which the server is to open in order to communicate with the device(s) connected there.
If you want the server to try to find the appropriate device, then leave this field out and instead
specify
.B DeviceDir
and
.B DeviceRegexp
(see below).
.TP
.B DeviceDir
As an alternative to hard-coding a device name in
.BR Device ,
This specifies the directory in which all the system's serial port devices may be found.
.TP
.B DeviceRegexp
A regular expression that matches serial ports which may be used for our devices. The first device
found in
.B DeviceDir
which matches this expression and can be successfully opened by the server process will be used for
this network.
.TP
.BI "BaudRate " (int)
The speed at which to communicate over the serial port.
.TP
.RE
.TP
.B LogFile
The name of a file where the server should log its state and activity along with debugging and error messages. By default,
these messages are sent to the standard output.
.TP
.B PidFile
If specified, this names a file in which the server will record its process ID number. This file is deleted when the server
shuts down.
.TP
.B Endpoint
This gives the TCP endpoint which is to accept HTTP requests. It has the form
.RI [ hostname ] \f[CR]:\fPport .
.SS "Example Configuration"
.na
.nf
.ft C
{
	"PidFile": "/tmp/rbserver.pid",
	"GlobalAddress": 15,
	"Endpoint": ":43210",
	"Devices": {
		"1": {
			"DeviceType": "Busylight2", 
			"NetworkID": "directlight",
			"Description": "Work busy indicator (kitchen)",
			"Serial": "B1234"
		},
		"2": {
			"DeviceType": "Readerboard3",
			"NetworkID": "sparkbus",
			"Description": "Kitchen status board",
			"Serial": "RB1234"
		},
		"3": {
			"DeviceType": "Busylight2",
			"NetworkID": "sparkbus",
			"Description": "Downstairs remote busy indicator",
			"Serial": "B1235"
		}
	},
	"Networks": {
		"directlight": {
			"ConnectionType": "USB",
			"Device": "/dev/usbtty0",
			"BaudRate": 9600
		},
		"sparkbus": {
			"ConnectionType": "RS-485",
			"Device": "/dev/usbtty1",
			"BaudRate": 9600
		}
	}
}
.ft
.fi
.ad
.SH "WEB SERVICE API"
.LP
In the current pre-release version, no authentication protection is implemented, so steps must be taken by the user
or system administrator to ensure
that the endpoint is not reachable by untrusted systems or users.
.LP
The server responds to requests with URLs that begin with the prefix
.RS
.ft C
http://\fIhost\fP:\fIport\fP/readerboard/v1/\fIcommand\fP?a=\fIaddress(es)\fP
.ft R
.RE
followed by one of the following commands. All commands accept a parameter
.B a
which lists one or more device ID numbers which should receive the command. If the global
address is in the list, then the command will be sent to all units. If more than one address
is given, the addresses are separated from each other with commas.
.SS "Simple Device Commands"
.LP
The following commands carry out the requested operation and do not send a reply unless they need to report a problem.
This allows them to be sent with something as simple as a
.BR curl (1)
command at the shell prompt or in a script. In the descriptions that follow, we will omit the
.RB \*(lq ?a= ...\*(rq
parameter common to all commands which has already been described above.
.TP
.B alloff
Extinguish all LEDs on the device(s), including matrix LEDs and discrete status indicators.
.TP
.BI bitmap ... \fR[\fP&merge\fR][\fP&trans= transition \fR][\fP&pos= n \fR]\fP&image= bitmap
Draw a bitmap pattern on the LED matrix starting at column
.IR n .
If
.B merge
is specified with no value or the value
.BR true ,
the pixels are merged with those already on the display; otherwise the previous contents of the
affected columns are lost in favor of the new pattern.
.RS
.LP
The
.I bitmap
value consists of a number of planes separated by dollar-signs
.RB (\*(lq $ \*(rq). 
Each plane consists of a number of two-digit hex values which provide
the pattern of lit pixels for the corresponding column, with the least-significant bit representing the top pixel.
On RGB models, there are four planes specified: red, green, blue, and flash; a bit in the red, green, or blue plane adds that
color to the corresponding pixel, combining to allow eight colors (including off) to be displayed. Any pixel whose corresponding
bit in the flash plane is set will be flashed on and off instead of burning steady. Monochrome displays are similar but only
use two planes: the first indicates which pixels are lit and the second indicates which are flashing.
.LP
Consider a 4x4-pixel red square filled in with green, which occupies the middle rows like so:
.na
.nf
.ft C
\&....
\&....
RRRR
RGGR
RGGR
RRRR
\&....
\&....
.ft
.fi
.ad
To draw this on the readerboard starting at column 0, send the command
.RS
.BI bitmap?a= addresses &pos=0&image=3c24243c$001818$$
.RE
To make the green inner square flash, then the command would instead be
.RS
.BI bitmap?a= addresses &pos=0&image=3c24243c$001818$$001818
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B clear
Clear the LED matrix so all pixels are off.
.TP
.BI color ... &color= c
Sets the current color to the specified color code.
.TP
.B diag-banners
Causes the addressed readerboard(s) to display their power-on banner messages again.
.TP
.BI flash ... &l= L0L1...LN
Sets a pattern of 0\-64 lights which will be illuminated in sequence on the discrete
status LEDs. Each value
.IR L0 ,
.IR L1 ,
etc., is either an ASCII digit representing the position in the stack of status lights or a single character which
represents the color of the desired light (as defined by each specific target device), or the special character 
.RB \*(lq _ \*(rq, 
which means no light should be on at that place in the sequence.
There are no delimiters between each
value in the sequence list. A sequence of zero length turns off the flasher entirely. A sequence of a single value merely
blinks that one LED on and off.
.TP
.BI font ... &idx= f
Select the font with ID number
.IR f .
.TP
.BI graph ... &colors= r0r1r2r3r4r5r6r7
Add a data element to the scrolling histogram display where the color of each pixel is given by color codes
.I r0
(for the top pixel in the column) through
.I r7
(the bottom pixel).
.TP
.BI graph ... &v= n
Add a data element to the scrolling histogram display as a stack of
.I n
lit pixels starting from the bottom of the column.
.TP
.BI light ... &l= L0L1...lN
Specifies up to 64 lights in the same fashion as for the
.B flash
command, but the set of lights are all turned on steady instead of flashing.
This command disables the flasher if it was running, but does not affect
the strober, thus allowing a steady pattern with a strobe as a secondary status indicator. Busylight units can only
light a single LED level at a time, while readerboard units can light any number.
.TP
.BI move ... &pos= n
Move the cursor to the specified absolute column number. 
.TP
.B off
Turn off the discrete status LED set on the target devices. The flasher and strober are stopped.
.TP
.BR scroll ...[ &loop ] &t=\fItext\fP
Scrolls
.I text
across the readerboard. If 
.B loop
is present (with no value or the value 
.BR true ),
the text will continually repeat in a never-ending scrolling display. Otherwise, it stops scrolling at the end of the text string.
The
.I text
value may contain special codes (these are introduced by control characters, so they are represented here using
the URL encoding as normally specified in the URL sent to the server):
.RS
'\".TP
'\".BI %03 pos
'\"Move cursor to column
'\".I pos
'\"(encoded as a six-bit integer value).
.TP
.BI %06 f
Switch the font to the one with the specified ID
.IR f .
'\".TP
'\".BI %08 pos
'\"Move the cursor
'\".I pos
'\"columns to the left.
.TP
.BI %0B c
Switch to the specified color.
'\".TP
'\".BI %0C pos
'\"Move the cursor
'\".I pos
'\"columns to the right.
.TP
.BI %18 hh
Insert character with the codepoint given by the two-digit hex number
.IR hh .
.RE
.TP
.BI strobe ... &l= L0L1...LN
Sets a pattern of 0\-64 lights which will be strobed (briefly flashed with a pause between each) in sequence on the discrete
status LEDs. Each value
.IR L0 ,
.IR L1 ,
etc., is either an ASCII digit representing the position in the stack of status lights or a single character which
represents the color of the desired light (as defined by each specific target device), or the special character 
.RB \*(lq _ \*(rq, 
which means no light should be strobed at that place in the sequence.
There are no delimiters between each
value in the sequence list. A sequence of zero length turns off the strober entirely. A sequence of a single value merely
strobes that one LED.
.TP
.B test
Run a test pattern on the target device(s) which demonstrates that the LEDs are all connected and the device's circuitry is functioning
properly.
.TP
.BR text ...[ &merge ][ &align= \fIalignment\fP][ &trans= \fIeffect\fP] &t=\fItext\fP
Displays
.I text
on the readerboard, optionally merging the pixels that spell out the letters with existing
pixels on the sign and/or transitioning to the message using an effect.
The
.I text
value may contain special codes (these are introduced by control characters, so they are represented here using
the URL encoding as normally specified in the URL sent to the server):
.RS
.TP
.BI %03 p
Move cursor to column
.I p
(encoded as a six-bit integer value).
.TP
.BI %06 f
Switch the font to the one with the specified ID
.IR f .
.TP
.BI %08 p
Move the cursor
.I p
columns to the left.
.TP
.BI %0B c
Switch to the specified color.
.TP
.BI %0C p
Move the cursor
.I p
columns to the right.
.TP
.BI %18 hh
Insert character with the codepoint given by the two-digit hex number
.IR hh .
.RE
.TP
.BI configure-device ... &rspeed= baud &uspeed= baud &address= a &global= g
Command the target device (which must be a single device) to change its baud rates for RS-485 and USB, as well as its
own device address and its understanding of the system global address.
.SS "Query Commands"
.LP
The following commands query devices to get information about them, and then report that information back in a JSON-formatted reply
as an object with device IDs as keys and JSON-formatted payloads as the corresponding values.
.TP
.B busy
Query the device's discrete status LEDs, reporting on which lights are currently illuminated,
and the state of the strober and flasher.
.RS
.LP
The report is a JSON map where the keys are the reporting device ID(s) (as string values) and the values are JSON objects
with the following fields:
.TP
.B StatusLights
This is a string where each character represents the state of one of the status LEDs. If lit, the corresponding
character will be the letter code defined it its firmware to represent the color of that light. If no code is defined
for that light, the digit representing its position in the stack of LEDs is shown. If off, that position in the string
will be
.RB \*(lq _ \*(rq.
.TP
.BI "FlasherStatus " (object)
A JSON object which shows the current state of the light flasher. This has the following fields:
.RS
.TP
.BI "IsRunning " (bool)
This is
.B true
If the flasher unit is currently running through its sequence.
.TP
.BI "Position " (int)
The 0-origin index into the sequence for the light currently being illuminated.
.TP
.B Sequence
A character string where each character is an LED code as shown above for the
.B StatusLights
field. This provides the full sequence that the flasher is running through.
.RE
.TP
.BI "StroberStatus " (object)
A JSON object with identical structure to
.B FlasherStatus
but giving the state of the light strober.
.LP
For example:
.nf
.na
.ft C
{
  "1": {
    "StatusLights": "__Y_____",
    "FlasherStatus": {
      "IsRunning": true,
      "Position": 0,
      "Sequence": "Yy"
    },
    "StroberStatus": {
      "IsRunning": false,
      "Position": 0,
      "Sequence": ""
    }
  }
}
.ft
.ad
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B query
Query the device's full status and report it. This includes the information reported by the
.B busy
command, as well as hardware and firmware revision numbers, serial number, contents of the LED matrix, etc.
As with
.BR busy ,
the response is a JSON map of device address to JSON object. The latter includes the following fields:
.TP
.B DeviceModelClass
This is a string describing the general class of device. It may be
.RB \*(lq Busylight \*(rq,
.RB \*(lq Readerboard_Monochrome \*(rq,
or
.RB \*(lq Readerboard_RGB \*(rq.
.TP
.BI "DeviceAddress " (int)
The configured address for this unit, or 255 if none is set (in which case the RS-485 interface is disabled).
.TP
.BI "GlobalAddress " (int)
The configured global address recognized by the device.
.TP
.BI "SpeedUSB " (int)
The baud rate setting for the direct USB interface.
.TP
.BI "Speed485 " (int)
The baud rate setting for the RS-485 interface.
.TP
.B EEPROM
This is
.RB \*(lq external \*(rq
if an I2C EEPROM chip external to the microcontroller board is in use,
.RB \*(lq internal \*(rq,
if the microcontroller's EEPROM is in use, or
.RB \*(lq none \*(rq
if no EEPROM is available on this unit.
.TP
.B HardwareRevision
The hardware version number as understood by the firmware.
.TP
.B FirmwareRevision
The firmware version number.
.TP
.B Serial
The device's serial number.
.TP
.BI "StatusLEDs " (object)
The state of the discrete status LED stack. The value is idential to the output from the
.B busy
command (q.v.)
.TP
.BI "ImageBitmap " "(list of lists)"
Busylight units report this as
.BR null .
Readerboards report the contents of their LED matrix here as a list of bitplanes (2 for monochrome displays, 4 for RGB ones).
Each plane is a list of columns as decimal integers, each of which is a bit-encoded value where the least-significant bit corresponds
to the top pixel in the column.
.RE
.LP
For example:
.nf
.na
.ft C
{
  "1": {
    "DeviceModelClass": "Readerboard_RGB",
    "DeviceAddress": 255,
    "GlobalAddress": 15,
    "SpeedUSB": 115200,
    "Speed485": 115200,
    "EEPROM": "external",
    "HardwareRevision": "3.2.2",
    "FirmwareRevision": "2.1.8",
    "Serial": "RB0000",
    "StatusLEDs": {
      "StatusLights": "__Y_____",
      "FlasherStatus": {
        "IsRunning": false,
        "Position": 0,
        "Sequence": ""
      },
      "StroberStatus": {
        "IsRunning": false,
        "Position": 0,
        "Sequence": ""
      }
    },
    "ImageBitmap": [
      [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],
      [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],
      [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0],
      [0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]
    ]
  },
  "2": {
    "DeviceModelClass": "Busylight",
    "DeviceAddress": 255,
    "GlobalAddress": 15,
    "SpeedUSB": 9600,
    "Speed485": 9600,
    "EEPROM": "internal",
    "HardwareRevision": "1.0.2",
    "FirmwareRevision": "2.1.3",
    "Serial": "B0001",
    "StatusLEDs": {
      "StatusLights": "___Y___",
      "FlasherStatus": {
        "IsRunning": false,
        "Position": 0,
        "Sequence": ""
      },
      "StroberStatus": {
        "IsRunning": false,
        "Position": 0,
        "Sequence": ""
      }
    },
    "ImageBitmap": null
  }
}
.ft
.ad
.fi
.SS "Server Commands"
.LP
The following commands execute higher-level operations on the server which in turn affects how it manages the state of the connected
devices rather than being commands that are sent directly to the devices themselves.
.TP
.BI current
Returns a JSON object that describes the server's current notion of the status indicators on all the devices. This is similar to
the
.B busy
command except it does not take the extra step of individually polling each device to query their status; it reports what state the
server last told the devices to show.
.TP
.BI post ... &t= text &id= id \fR[\fP&trans= effect \fR][\fP&until= dt \fR][\fP&hold= d \fR][\fP&color= c \fR][\fP&visible= d \fR][\fP&show= d \fR][\fP&repeat= d \fR]\fP
Add a new message to the display list for the specified target devices. They will display these messages until they expire.
Sending other display-manipulating commands will suspend this display until a
.B clear
command is issued to the device. 
.RS
.LP
A number of variables, special tokens, and scheduling parameters may be given as documented in the
.IR "Readerboard User's Guide" .
.RE
.TP
.BI postlist ... &id= id_or_ / regex
Report back with a list of all the messages in the display queue for the specified device(s) that
match the specified 
.I id
or regular expression.
.TP
.BI unpost ... &id= id_or_ / regex
Removes all messages matching the
.I id
or regular expression from the display list of the target devices.
.TP
.BI update ... & k0 = v0...kn = vn
Update the value of one or more user variables which may be substituted into posted display lists.
.SH "ENCODED VALUES"
.SS "Colors"
.LP
Colors as specified to the 
.BR color ,
.BR graph ,
and
.B post
commands 
and in the embedded color-change sequence in
the
.B scroll
and
.B text
commands may use these codes:
.LP
.TS
center;
CB LB | CB LB
CB l | CB l.
_
Code	Color	Code	Color
_
0	off	8	off
1	red	9	flashing red
2	green	:	flashing green
3	amber	;	flashing amber
4	blue	<	flashing blue
5	magenta	\&=	flashing magenta
6	cyan	>	flashing cyan
7	white	?	flashing white
_
.TE
.LP
Color codes given as parameters to the
.B color
and
.B post
commands may also include integer values 10\-15 in place of :\-? respectively.
.SS "Font Indexes"
.LP
Fonts are specified by numeric index:
.LP
.TS
center;
CB LB
CB l.
_
Index	Font
_
0	Standard 5x7 matrix font (fixed-width)
1	Variable-width version of font 0
2	Special symbols and large bold alphanumerics
_
.TE
.SS "Transition Codes"
.LP
The codes which may be specified to the
.BR bitmap ,
.BR post ,
and
.BR text
commands to indicate transition effect may be given
as either the code symbol or keyword:
.LP
.TS
center;
CB LB LB
CB LB l.
_
Code	Keyword	Effect
_
.	none	no effect	
>	scroll-right	scroll to the right	
<	scroll-left	scroll to the left	
^	scroll-up	scroll up	
v	scroll-down	scroll down	
R	wipe-right	wipe to the right
L	wipe-left	wipe to the left
U	wipe-up	wipe up
D	wipe-down	wipe down
|	wipe-horiz	wipe left and right	
\-	wipe-vert	wipe up and down
?	random	Random effect
_
.TE
.SS "Alignment Codes"
.LP
The alignment code specified to the
.B text
command may be given by code or keyword:
.LP
.TS
center;
CB LB LB
CB LB l.
_
Code	Keyword	Alignment
_
\&.	none	none
>	right	right-justified to right edge
^	center	centered across entire matrix
C	local-center	centered between cursor and right edge
R	local-right	right-aligned between left edge and cursor
_
.TE
.SS "Time Durations"
The various duration parameters to the
.B post
command are formatted as a string of numbers followed by a single-letter code indicating time units,
such as
.RB \*(lq 3m \*(rq
for 3 minutes,
.RB \*(lq 5h \*(rq
for 5 hours,
and
.RB \*(lq 1d,10h3m42s \*(rq
for 1 day, 10 hours, 3 minutes, and 42 seconds.
.SS "Time and Date"
The time and date parameters to the
.B post
command have the general form
.RS
.RI [ day \f[CR]@\fP][ hour ]\f[CR]:\fP min [\f[CR]:\fP sec ]
.RE
where
.I day
is the name of the day of the week, and the others are decimal integer values
using 24-hour time for the
.I hour
value.
.LP
The parameter may also be a single
.I day
by itself, or it may have the form of a duration in which case it represents that much elapsed time from the current time.
.LP
The
.B visible
parameter to
.B post
is actually a pair of date time values separated by a hyphen
.RB (\*(lq \- \*(rq).
.SS Variables
Text messages given to the
.B post
command may include these server-side variables:
.TS
center;
LB LB
LB l.
_
Variable	Meaning
_
{big}	Switch to large characters for alphanumerics
{color\fIn\fP}	Switch to color code
{\fIcolorname\fP}	Switch to color name
{date}	Print the date as dd-mmm-yyyy
{font\fIn\fP}	Switch to the given font
{normal}	Cancel {big}
{mdy}	Print the date as mm/dd/yyyy
{pom}	Show the phase of the moon symbol
{time12}	Print the time as hh:mm AM/PM
{time24}	Print the time as hh:mm
{ymd}	Print the date as yyyy-mm-dd
{@\fIn\fP}	Move to the specified column
{@+\fIn\fP}	Move right a number of columns
{@\-\fIn\fP}	Move left a number of columns
{#\fIn\fP}	Insert special character by decimal code
{#$\fIh\fP}	Insert special character by hexadecimal code
{$\fIname\fP}	Insert user-defined variable
{{	Literal {
}}	Literal }
_
.TE
.SS "Six-Bit Integers"
.LP
Values such as the positioning commands specified to embedded codes in text strings are constrained to the range 0\-63, encoded into a single
character by adding 48 to the integer value. Thus, the ASCII digit characters
.RB \*(lq 0 \*(rq\-\*(lq 9 \*(rq
represent integer values 0\-9 directly,
.RB \*(lq : \*(rq\-\*(lq @ \*(rq
represent 10\-16, and so forth, up to
.RB \*(lq o \*(rq
which represents the value 63.
.LP
For values that specifically refer to column position, the character
.RB \*(lq ~ \*(rq
represents the current cursor position.
'\".TP
'\".B Colors
'\".RS
'\".TP
'\".B 0
'\"off
'\".TP
'\".B 1/9
'\"red (1=steady, 9=flashing)
'\".TP
'\".B 2/10
'\"green (2=steady, 10=flashing)
'\".TP
'\".B 3/11
'\"yellow (3=steady, 11=flashing)
'\".TP
'\".B 4/12
'\"blue (4=steady, 12=flashing)
'\".TP
'\".B 5/13
'\"magenta (5=steady, 13=flashing)
'\".TP
'\".B 6/14
'\"cyan (6=steady, 14=flashing)
'\".TP
'\".B 7/15
'\"white (7=steady, 15=flashing)
'\".LP
'\"When sending color codes embedded in strings with the
'\".B %0B
'\"control sequence, flashing green, yellow, blue, magenta, cyan, and white are represented by 
'\".RB \*(lq : \*(rq,
'\".RB \*(lq ; \*(rq,
'\".RB \*(lq < \*(rq,
'\".RB \*(lq = \*(rq,
'\".RB \*(lq > \*(rq,
'\"and
'\".RB \*(lq ? \*(rq,
'\"since two-digit values can't be used with that notation.
'\".RE
'\".TP
'\".B Font IDs
'\".RS
'\".TP
'\".B 0
'\"Standard fixed-width 5x7 matrix characters.
'\".TP
'\".B 1
'\"Variable-width version of font 0.
'\".TP
'\".B 2
'\"Special symbols and large letters and digits.
'\".RE
'\".TP
'\".B Positions
'\"Column positions are encoded as six-bit integers, with the addition that the special character
'\".RB \*(lq ~ \*(rq
'\"indicates the current cursor position.
'\".TP
'\".B Six-bit integers
'\"Integer values are encoded by adding 48 to the integer and sending that as an ASCII character. Thus, values 0\-9 are
'\"sent as the characters
'\".RB \*(lq 0 \*(rq\-\*(lq 9 \*(rq,
'\"10 is sent as
'\".RB \*(lq : \*(rq,
'\"and 63 (the maximum value which can be encoded) as
'\".RB \*(lq o \*(rq.
'\".TP
'\".B Transitions
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
More details about how values are encoded and handled by devices and the server are described
in greater detail in the
.I "Readerboard User's Guide"
document that accompanies the project source code.
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under the BSD 3-Clause License.
