.TH SETSN 1 "Readerboard/Busylight Project" 11-Oct-2024
.SH NAME
setsn \- Field program a readerboard or busylight device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B setsn
.RB [ \-addr
.IR addr ]
.RB [ \-force ]
.RB [ \-global
.IR addr ]
.B \-port
.I path
.RB [ \-reset ]
.RB [ \-rs485
.IR rate ]
.RB [ \-sn
.IR serialno ]
.RB [ \-speed
.IR rate ]
.RB [ \-usb
.IR rate ]
.ad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
After flashing a new firmware image onto a new Readerboard or Busylight device, use this program to
configure a unique serial number into its EEPROM, or as needed to configure its addresses and communication
speeds.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Operational Parameters"
.LP
These options control the overall operation of
.BR setsn .
.TP
.B \-force
Normally,
.B setsn
will display a description of the target device (obtained by probing the device itself), and then ask the
user to confirm if you want to proceed to alter that device's configuration. If the
.B \-force
option is given,
.B setsn
will proceed to make the changes without asking.
.TP
.BI "\-port " path
Specify the device name (e.g., 
.IR /dev/ttyACM1 )
where the target device is plugged in to the host computer.
.TP
.BI "\-speed " rate
Sets the baud rate with which we will communicate with the target device. (Default=9600 baud.)
.SS "Device Settings"
.LP
Specify one or more of these to make changes to the device's configuration.
.TP
.BI "\-addr " addr
Set the device's RS-485 device ID. This must be unique on the network of connected devices, and must not be the
global address. This is an integer in the range 0\-63, or \-1 (the default) if you want to disable the RS-485 port entirely
and assign no ID number at all to this unit.
.TP
.BI "\-global " addr
Set the device's RS-485 global ID which all devices will respond to. This must be the same as the global ID configured
for all other connected devices. It is an ingeter in the range 0\-15 (default=15).
.TP
.B \-reset
Reset the addresses and baud rates to their defaults. If this option is given along with other options
that set those parameters, the 
.B \-reset
is done first.
.TP
.BI "\-rs485 " rate
Change the device's RS-485 interface to run at the specified baud
.IR rate .
.TP
.BI "\-sn " serialno
Set the device's serial number to the specified string. This should be alphanumeric and up to six characters long.
Serial numbers
.BR B00000\-B00299
and
.BR RB0000\-RB0299
are reserved for use by the original author.
.TP
.BI "\-usb " rate
Change the device's USB interface to run at the specified baud
.IR rate .
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Steve Willoughby / steve@madscience.zone.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024 by Steven L. Willoughby, Aloha, Oregon, USA. All Rights Reserved. Distributed under the BSD 3-Clause License.
